---
title: tiapp.xml and timodule.xml Reference
weight: '10'
---

# tiapp.xml and timodule.xml Reference

## Introductions

The `tiapp.xml` file and its close cousin the `timodule.xml` file are XML configuration files that the Titanium SDK uses to generate native resources and code. Many of the configuration that lives in `tiapp.xml` is cross-platform, but some is platform-specific as well. The `timodule.xml` file is meant for custom Titanium Modules, and generally **_only_** contains platform-specific configuration.

**Example: tiapp.xml**

```xml
<ti:app xmlns:ti="http://ti.appcelerator.org">
    <id>com.appcelerator.helloWorld</id>
    <name>helloWorld</name>
    <version>1.0.1</version>
    <icon>appicon.png</icon>
    <fullscreen>false</fullscreen>
    <navbar-hidden>false</navbar-hidden>
    <analytics>true</analytics>
    <guid>GUID</guid>
  <ios>
        <plist>
            <dict>
            <key>UISupportedInterfaceOrientations~iphone</key>
                <array>
              <string>Ti.UI.PORTRAIT</string>
            </array>
            <key>UISupportedInterfaceOrientations~ipad</key>
                <array>
              <string>Ti.UI.PORTRAIT</string>
              <string>Ti.UI.UPSIDE_PORTRAIT</string>
              <string>Ti.UI.LANDSCAPE_LEFT</string>
              <string>Ti.UI.LANDSCAPE_RIGHT</string>
            </array>
            </dict>
        </plist>
  </ios>
  <android xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
        <tool-api-level>10</tool-api-level>
        <abi>all</abi>
  </android>
  <modules/>
</ti:app>
```

::: warning ⚠️ Warning
A note about encryption and `tiapp.xml`: `tiapp.xml` properties are encrypted when building the app for production.
:::

## Top level elements

These configuration elements live under the root `<ti:app>` tag of the `tiapp.xml`. Unless otherwise noted, the configuration value goes inside the tag's content, that is, `<element>` `VALUE` `</element>.`

### guid

**Required.** A unique ID that associates this application for use in analytics and other Appcelerator Services. This value is generated by Appcelerator. Do not modify this value unless you know what you are doing.

### id

**Required.** The application ID.

In Android, this ID is used to generate the package ID of the application, which must follow [Java Package Naming Standards](http://download.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/package/namingpkgs.html).

In iOS, this ID must match the Bundle ID when generating an Explicit App ID in the [Apple Developer: Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles](https://developer.apple.com/account/overview.action) page.

**Example**

```xml
<id>com.mycompany.fakeblock</id>
```

### name

**Required.** The application name. This is generally what is shown under the application icon on the end-user's mobile device.

**Example**

```xml
<name>Fakeblock</name>
```

::: warning ⚠️ Warning
On Android, if you change the name to a value that starts with a digit, you need to prefix the name in the activity with an undersore (`_`) if you include activities in the Android section of the `tiapp.xml` file. For example, if you change the name to `2Foo` the activity name will be `_2Foo`.
:::

### analytics

Whether or not to automatically collect analytics for this application. Enabled by default. See [Analytics Architecture](/guide/AMPLIFY_Appcelerator_Services/AMPLIFY_Appcelerator_Services_Guide/AMPLIFY_Appcelerator_Analytics/Analytics_Architecture/).

**Example: Enable Ti.Analytics**

```xml
<analytics>true</analytics>
```

### copyright

The copyright of this application.

### deployment-target

This element contains subelements of deployment targets used by Studio to determine which target options should be shown in the deployment menus.

* `<target device="DEVICE">`: Specifies if the target device is supported by the project. Must be placed inside the `<deployment-targets>` element.

**Example: Specify the project only supports Android targets**

```xml
<deployment-targets>
    <target device="android">true</target>
    <target device="ipad">false</target>
    <target device="iphone">false</target>
</deployment-targets>
```

### description

The description of this application.

```xml
<description>Tap to rock out with this block.</description>
```

### fullscreen

Whether or not the application will start by taking up the entire screen and remove the status bar. Default is false.

### icon

The application icon's filename. This file should be relative to the application's `Resources` directory, or alternatively, can also live under a platform-specific folder, such as `Resources/iphone` or `Resources/android`.

**Example: Default icon in**

```xml
<icon>appicon.png</icon>
```

### modules

This element includes subelements of modules to include with the project.

* `<module platform="PLATFORM" version="MODULE_VERSION" deploy-type="DEPLOYMENT_ENVIRONMENTS">`: Defines a module to include with the project specified by the module's folder name or ZIP file minus the extension. The module should either be in the root level of the project (same level as the `Resources` folder) or in the `<PATH_TO_TITANIUM_SDK>/modules` folder. Must be placed inside the`<modules>`element.

    Define the `platform` attribute to specify which platforms to include the module with. Specify `android` for Android, `commonjs` for all platforms, or `iphone` for iPhone and iPad. Note that you can specify only one platform. For a module that may be included on several platforms, repeat the same module entry, specifying a different platform for each entry.

    Define the `version` attribute if you want to use a specific version of the module.

    Define the `deploy-type` attribute if you want to use the module in specific environments. To specify one or more environment, comma-separate the environment types. You may specify the following environments: `development`, `test` or `production`.

**Example: Include the ti.cloud module**

```xml
<modules>
    <module platform="commonjs">ti.cloud</module>
    <module platform="android" deploy-type="development,test">junit</module>
</modules>
```

### navbar-hidden

Whether or not the navigation bar is hidden for this application. Default is false.

On Android, this will remove the top action/title bar.

### plugins

This element includes subelements of plugins to include with the project.

* `<plugin version="PLUGIN_VERSION">`: Defines a plugin to include with the project specified by the plugin's folder name. Place plugins in the `plugins` folder of the project (same level as the `Resources` folder). This element must be placed inside the `<plugins>`element. The `version` attribute is optional. Define it to include a specific version of the plugin.

**Example: Include the Alloy plugin**

```xml
<plugins>
    <plugin version="1.0">ti.alloy</plugin>
</plugins>
```

### property

See [Application properties](#app_properties) below.

### publisher

The publisher of this application.

**Example**

```xml
<publisher>Bluth Company</publisher>
```

### statusbar-hidden

Only supported on Android. Will remove the top status bar if set `true`. Default is false.

### sdk-version

Specifies the SDK to build against or use for CLI commands.

**Example: Use Titanium SDK 8.0.0 GA**

```xml
<sdk-version>8.0.0.GA</sdk-version>
```

### url

The URL of this application.

**Example**

```xml
<url>http://www.bluthcompany.com/fakeblock</url>
```

### version

The application version.

For iOS the version number is truncated to three dot-separated numbers. For example, '2.1' remains as '2.1', but '2.1.0.1' will be converted to '2.1.0'.

**Example**

```xml
<version>3.1.4</version>
```

### Deprecated elements

* `<persistent-wifi>`: See [UIRequiresPersistentWiFi](#uirequirespersistentwifi)UIRequiresPersistentWiFi.

* `<prerendered-icon>`: See [UIPrerenderedIcon](#uiprerenderedicon).

* `<statusbar-style>`: See [UIStatusBarStyle](#uistatusbarstyle).

* `<statusbar-hidden>`: See [UIStatusBarHidden](#undefined).

## Application properties

`tiapp.xml` also supports ad-hoc properties that can be used by the application with [Titanium.App.Properties](http://developer.appcelerator.com/apidoc/mobile/latest/Titanium.App.Properties-module). These properties must be placed inside the`root <ti:app>`element.

::: warning ⚠️ Warning
Any properties defined inside the `tiapp.xml` are read-only. Previously, you could overwrite these property values.
:::

Properties generally follow the form:

```xml
<property name="name" type="type">value</property>
```

* `name`is the property name

* `type`is the property value's type, valid values are: `string`, `bool`, `int`, `double`

* `value`is the property's value

Properties are also used in specific cases by each platform, which is further explained in each platform section.

### ti.ui.defaultunit

The special property `ti.ui.defaultunit` can be used to set the default unit used for specifying sizes and positions.

```xml
<property name="ti.ui.defaultunit">system</property>
```

The default unit can be one of the following:

* `system`. Specifies system default unit.

* `cm`. Centimeters.

* `dip`or `dp`. Density-independent pixels (DIPs).

* `in`. Inches.

* `mm`. Millimeters.

* `px`. Pixels.

Setting the default unit to pixels may cause issues on iOS unless you detect and handle Retina displays in your code.

See [Ti.UI.View](#!/api/Titanium.UI.View) in the Titanium SDK API Reference for more information on units.

### intent-filter-new-task

::: warning ⚠️ Warning
As of Titanium 8.0.0, `tiapp.xml` property `intent-filter-new-task` is no longer supported. If a Titanium app is currently in the background, then an intent will now resume it and fire a "newintent" event. All apps will now simulate "singleTask"-like behavior automatically
:::

Since launch modes cannot be used with Titanium Android, to offer similar behavior to `android:launchMode="singleTask"` when using intent filters, you can set the _intent-filter-new-task_ property in your `tiapp.xml`:

**tiapp.xml**

```xml
<property name="intent-filter-new-task" type="bool">true</property>
```

This will start any activity launched from an intent filter as a new task.

### appc-security-jailbreak-detect

The special property `appc-security-jailbreak-detect` can be used to increase the security of your application by preventing the mobile app from running on a Jailbroken (iOS) or rooted (Android) device.

```xml
<property name="appc-security-jailbreak-detect">true</property>
```

This feature is disabled by default. If you enable this feature, you will be required to set the property of `remote` for `appc-sourcecode-encryption-policy` in order for it to work. Note: there is no default behavior for `appc_sourcecode-encryption-policy`. You must explicitly set this value.

Setting this property to **false** will allow your application to run on devices that have been jailbroken or rooted.

### appc-security-debugger-detect

The special property `appc-security-debugger-detect` can be used to increase the security of your application by preventing debugging applications from connecting to your mobile app.

```xml
<property name="appc-security-debugger-detect">true</property>
```

This feature is disabled by default. If you enable this feature, you will be required to set the property of `remote` for `appc-sourcecode-encryption-policy` in order for it to work. Note: there is no default behavior for `appc_sourcecode-encryption-policy`. You must explicitly set this value.

Setting this property to **false** will allow debug applications to connect to your mobile app.

### appc-sourcecode-encryption-policy

The special property `appc-sourcecode-encryption-policy` determines the encryption policy for application assets. Values can be:

* `embed`: Embeds the encryption key and initialization vector (IV) into the application binary. The key and IV are padded and obfuscated.

* `remote`: Stores the encryption key remotely, which requires the device to have an internet connection to run the application (default behavior).

```xml
<property name="appc-sourcecode-encryption-policy">remote</property>
```

## Android-specific section

Under the top `<ti:app>` element, you may optionally have an `<android>` element that contains Android specific configuration. If the application requires any ad-hoc XML from AndroidManifest.xml, make sure to also add the android XML namespace, as shown in the example below. The official [Android Developers](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/manifest-intro.html) website describes all the other elements that are supported, such as `<service>` , `<uses-permission>` and `<activity>` for instance, and these will be added using the same logic.

```xml
<android xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
  <!-- Custom Titanium elements -->
  <abi>all</abi>
  <activities>
    <activity url="activity.js"/>
  </activities>
  <services>
    <service url="service.js" type="standard"/>
  </services>
  <!-- Android Manifest element -->
  <manifest>
    <uses-sdk android:minSdkVersion="10" android:targetSdkVersion="14"/>
    <application>
        <activity>...</activity>
        <service>...</service>
    </application>
  </manifest>
</android>
```

The above example includes all of the common sections to show the structure of the XML elements. All of these sections are optional, and are described below:

### abi

Selects the target ABI architecture. Only used when building for the V8 runtime. Choose between the following values:

* all (All architectures, **default**)

* arm64-v8a

* armeabi-v7a

* x86

* x86\_64

Targeting an ABI architecture will help reduce the application and APK size, but will support fewer devices. Currently defaults to 'all'. You can upload multiple APK's for multiple ABI's, improving the file size of the bundled app.

### activities

Defines a list of custom JavaScript-based Android activities. This is a custom Titanium XML element and should not be confused with the Android Manifest `activity` element.

* `<activity url="activity.js"/>`: Creates an activity with a URL that points to the JavaScript file (under `Resources`) that defines it.

* Ad-hoc elements: Inside the `<activity>` element, any ad-hoc element from an AndroidManifest.xml is supported. See the [documentation for the activity element in AndroidManifest.xml](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/activity-element.html).

### manifest

Ad-hoc XML from [AndroidManifest.xml](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/manifest-intro.html). Some common elements to set are listed below:

#### application

This element contains subelements that declare each of the application's components and has attributes that can affect all the components. Must be placed inside the `<manifest>` element. See the [documentation for the application element in AndroidManifest.xml](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/application-element.html).

#### uses-permission

Request a permission for the application to use. Must be placed inside the`<manifest>`element. See the "Setting calendar permissions" example below and the [documentation for the uses-permission element in AndroidManifest.xml](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/uses-permission-element.html).

#### uses-sdk

Lets you express an application's compatibility with one or more versions of the Android platform, by means of an API Level integer. Must be placed inside the `<manifest>`element. See the "Set a target or minimum SDK level" example below and the [documentation for the uses-sdk element in AndroidManifest.xml](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/uses-sdk-element.html).

### services

Defines a list of custom JavaScript-based Android services (long running background processes). This is a custom Titanium XML element and should not be confused with the Android Manifest `service` element.

* `<service url="service.js" type="standard"/>`: Creates a service with a URL that points to the JavaScript file (under `Resources`) that defines it. `type` is optional.

* Ad-hoc elements: Under the `<service>` tag, any ad-hoc element from an AndroidManifest.xml is supported. See the [documentation for the service element in AndroidManifest.xml](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/service-element.html).

### Android-specific application properties

Android also supports a number of application properties for various internal settings. (See [Application properties](#app_properties) above on how to define an application property.)

| Property Name | Type | Default Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ti.android.shake.factor | double | 1.3 | Shake factor used for the "shake" event in the [Titanium.Gesture module](http://developer.appcelerator.com/apidoc/mobile/latest/Titanium.Gesture-module) |
| ti.android.shake.quiet.milliseconds | int | 500 | Number of "quiet" milliseconds before the "shake" event is fired |
| ti.android.shake.active.milliseconds | int | 1000 | Number of "active" milliseconds before the "shake" event is fired |
| ti.android.google.map.api.key.development | string | N/A | **Deprecated.** Google Maps v1 API Key for use in development. |
| ti.android.google.map.api.key.production | string | N/A | **Deprecated.** Google Maps v1 API Key for use in production. |
| ti.android.httpclient.maxbuffersize | int | 524288 | The maximum buffer size (in bytes) before an HTTP response is written to a temporary file instead of memory (default is 512KB) |
| ti.android.compilejs | bool | N/A | Turns on or off JS compilation. By default, JS compilation is only on when distributing an application, but manually setting this to "true" will enable it for development as well. |
| ti.android.debug | bool | false | Turn on detailed logging in the SDK |
| ti.android.root.reappears.restart | bool | false | Restarts the application if the root task was destroyed by Android after a period of inactivity.<br /><br />**(As of Titanium 8.0.0, this property is no longer supported.)** |

**Example: Disable Fastdev**

```xml
<property name="ti.android.fastdev">false</property>
```

### Properties to work around Android bugs 2373 and 5277

::: warning ⚠️ Warning
As of Titanium 8.0.0, this has been deprecated. The new behavior is a data intent will resume a backgrounded app will be resumed and the fire a "newintent" event. Also, the restart dialog box has been removed.
:::

See [TIMOB-4941](http://jira.appcelerator.org/browse/TIMOB-4941), [TIMOB-1559](http://jira.appcelerator.org/browse/TIMOB-1559) and [TIMOB-9285](http://jira.appcelerator.org/browse/TIMOB-9285) for information about the Titanium workaround to Google issues [2373](http://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=2373) and [5277](http://code.google.com/p/android/issues/detail?id=5277). TIMOB-9285 in particular has a useful [explanation](https://jira-archive.titaniumsdk.com/TIMOB-9285?focusedCommentId=210304&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-210304) of the issue and of `ti.android.bug2373.finishfalseroot`, the newest of the properties listed below.

| Property Name | Type | Default Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ti.android.bug2373.finishfalseroot | bool | true | Setting to true will avoid showing any messages to the user and will force any subsequent, anomalous instantiations of the application's launch Activity to finish and disappear without disturbing the user. This is [explained in greater detail](https://jira-archive.titaniumsdk.com/TIMOB-9285?focusedCommentId=210304&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels:comment-tabpanel#comment-210304) in JIRA issue TIMOB-9285. This property should be used by itself, without any of the other "bug2373" properties. It is the least intrusive of these properties and should give the best user experience. |
| ti.android.bug2373.disableDetection | bool | false | setting to true will completely disable the workaround |
| ti.android.bug2373.title | String | Restart Required | title of dialog |
| ti.android.bug2373.message | String | An application restart is required | message used in dialog. if _skipAlert_ is true the message is shown in a Toast if message length is > 0 |
| ti.android.bug2373.buttonText | String | Continue | button text on alert dialog |
| ti.android.bug2373.restartDelay | int | 500 | number of milliseconds to wait before starting the new copy of the app with the correct Intent settings. |
| ti.android.bug2373.finishDelay | int | 0 | number of milliseconds to wait before finishing (exiting) the current application. |
| ti.android.bug2373.skipAlert | bool | false | if true, the dialog box will not be shown, but the workaround will still be applied if _disableDetection_ is false. |

### Common requirements

#### Set a target or minimum SDK level

To indicate that your application supports a certain API Level, add the `<uses-sdk>` element with the `android:minSdkVersion` and/or `android:targetSdkVersion` attributes. It may be necessary to set these attributes to enable certain Android features, such as the action bar or theme. Note that the API Level you enter below must be within the min and max supported levels the Titanium SDK supports as shown in the [Titanium Compatibility Matrix](/guide/Titanium_SDK/Titanium_SDK_Getting_Started/Installation_and_Configuration/Titanium_Compatibility_Matrix/).

```xml
<android xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
    <manifest>
        <!-- Target Android 10.0 and set min OS version supported to Android 5.0. -->
        <uses-sdk android:minSdkVersion="21" android:targetSdkVersion="29"/>
    </manifest>
</android>
```

#### Configuring screen densities

To indicate that your application supports any screen densities, which is a common use-case, add the `<supports-screens>` element and set the screen size attributes to true:

```xml
<android xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
    <manifest>
        <supports-screens
            android:smallScreens="true"
            android:normalScreens="true"
            android:largeScreens="true"
            android:xlargeScreens="true"
        />
    </manifest>
</android>
```

::: danger ❗️ Warning
Do not set the `android:anyDensity` attribute to false. Google does not recommend [changing the default value](http://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/supports-screens-element.html#any). Setting this attribute to false may cause undesired behavior.
:::

#### Enabling the debugger by default

To make the app `debuggable` by default, set the `<application>` attribute to `true` (it's false in our default manifest template).
This setting is required to attach the Java debugger to a running application. It is **not** required for debugging the application's JavaScript in Studio, so setting `debuggable` to `true` may be primarily interesting to developers working on native Android modules or debugging issues in the Titanium native libraries.

```xml
<android xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
    <manifest>
        <application android:debuggable="true" />
    </manifest>
</android>
```

#### Setting install location preferences

Your Android apps are installed by default to the device's internal storage, but Titanium apps can be installed to the SD card using the following configuration:

```xml
<android xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
   <manifest android:installLocation="preferExternal">
      <uses-sdk android:minSdkVersion="7" />
   </manifest>
</android>
```

For the `android:installLocation` property, choose one of these values:

* `android:installLocation="preferExternal"` -- specifies that you prefer your app to install to the SD card, but if one isn't present the app can be installed to internal storage.

* `android:installLocation="auto`" – specifies that the phone's configuration will determine the installation location. Generally, your app will be installed to internal storage if sufficient space is available. In that case, users could still move your app by opening **Settings > Applications > Manage applications**, tapping your app, and tapping Move to SD card.

* `android:installLocation="internalOnly`" – which specifies that your app cannot be installed to the SD card. See the [Android docs](http://developer.android.com/guide/appendix/install-location.html#ShouldNot) for the various reasons why you might choose this option.

Finally, you need to add the `<uses-sdk>` tag within the `<manifest>` node. This tag specifies that your app requires Google's version 7 or newer APIs — in other words, the phone must be running Android 2.1 Update 1 or newer. That pretty much covers all the newer phones, but will exclude some older devices. On those phones, your app will install to the internal storage.

#### Requesting a large heap from Dalvik

To request a large heap size, set the `android:largeHeap` property of the `<application>` attribute to `true`. Requires API level 11 or higher. Note that you are not guaranteed a fixed increase in available memory, because some devices are constrained by their total available memory.

```xml
<android xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
    <manifest>
        <application android:largeHeap="true"/>
    </manifest>
</android>
```

## iOS-specific section

Under the top `<ti:app>`element, you may optionally have iOS-specific elements.

```xml
<ti:app>
    <ios>
        <entitlements>
      <dict>
        <!-- Enter entitlements like com.apple.security.application-groups -->
      </dict>
        <extensions>
            ...
        </extensions>
        <plist>
            <dict>
                <!-- Enter Info.plist entries like UIStatusBarStyle -->
            </dict>
        </plist>
        <use-autolayout>true</use-autolayout>
    </ios>
</ti:app>
```

### team-id

**Since Release 5.0.0**. Specifies the team ID to be used as a prefix for the app-id. This property is required when using app extensions (e.g. share extensions, watch extensions and siri extentions).

**Example: Enable app-groups for app-extensions**

```xml
<ti:app>
  <ios>
    <team-id>YOUR_TEAM_ID</team-id>
  <ios>
</ti:app>
```

### entitlements

**Since Release 6.1.0**. Specifies the target's entitlements injected into the generated native project.

Prior to this release, developers could already specify entitlements by using the "Entitlements.plist" in the project root that is merged with the internal entitlements (e.g. push-notifications). Starting in Titanium 6.1.0, developers can also specify entitlements in the central "tiapp.xml" project file. It will be merged with internal entitlements and is able to override existing entitlements keys.

**Example: Enable app-groups for app-extensions**

```xml
<ti:app>
  <ios>
    <entitlements>
      <dict>
        <!-- Example: Enable app-groups for app-extensions -->
        <key>com.apple.security.application-groups</key>
         <array>
          <string>group.com.appcelerator.mycoolapp</string>
        </array>
      </dict>
    </entitlements>
  <ios>
</ti:app>
```

### extensions

**Since Release 5.0.0.** Specifies the iOS extensions the applications supports.

For each extension, add an **`<extension>`** element and set the `projectPath` attribute to the relative or absolute path to the Xcode project folder (`<name>.xcodeproj`).

In the `extension` element, add a **`<target>`** element and set the `name` attribute to the target name of the extension. For Apple Watch applications, you will need to add another `target` element for the WatchApp target.

In the `target` element, add a **`<provisioning-profiles>`** element, which determines the devices the application can run on. Add the following elements as children of the `provisioning-profiles` element. For each listed element you add, set the node text to the provisioning profile UUID of the extension or watch application:

* **`<devices/>`** : Add to deploy for development builds

* `<dist-appstore/>`: Add to deploy to the iTunes App Store

* **`<dist-adhoc/>`** : Add to deploy for ad-hoc builds

**Example: Include watchOS extensions**

```xml
<ti:app>
  <ios>
    <extensions>
      <extension projectPath="extensions/foo/foo.xcodeproj">
        <target name="foo WatchApp Extension">
          <provisioning-profiles>
            <devices/>
            <dist-appstore/>
            <dist-adhoc/>
          </provisioning-profiles>
        </target>
        <target name="foo WatchApp">
          <provisioning-profiles>
            <devices/>
            <dist-appstore/>
            <dist-adhoc/>
          </provisioning-profiles>
        </target>
      </extension>
    </extensions>
  <ios>
</ti:app>
```

### min-ios-ver

Specifies the minimum iOS version supported by this application. The default value when not specified is "9.0".

**Example: Set 9.0 as the minimum iOS version**

```xml
<ios>
    <!-- Require iOS 9.0 or later -->
    <min-ios-ver>9.0</min-ios-ver>
</ios>
```

### min-sdk-ver

Specifies the minimum SDK (Xcode) version supported by this application. The default value when not specified is "8.0".

**Example: Set Xcode 4.3 as the minimum SDK version**

```xml
<ios>
    <!-- Require Xcode 9 or later -->
    <min-sdk-ver>9.0</min-sdk-ver>
</ios>
```

### plist

The `<ios>` section allows you to define settings to add to the generated `Info.plist` file. These values take the form of key/value pairs, defined using the same syntax as the `Info.plist` file.

You can include a custom `Info.plist` file in the top-level directory of your Titanium project, but these value are overwritten by the settings in the**`<plist>`** section of the tiapp.xml file.

For a detailed description of all `Info.plist` keys, see the [iOS Info.plist Key Reference](http://developer.apple.com/library/ios/#documentation/general/Reference/InfoPlistKeyReference/Articles/iPhoneOSKeys.html) on the iOS Developer Center.

You can specify device-specific configurations by appending `~ipad`, `~iphone` or `~ipod` to the key name, just as in the Info.plist file. For example:

```xml
<key>UISupportedInterfaceOrientations~ipad</key>
```

Not all keys are supported at this time. See [Unsupported Info.plist Keys](#UnsupportedInfo.plistKeys) for a list of keys that may not be overridden in the `tiapp.xml` file.

Some notable keys are listed in the following sections.

#### UISupportedInterfaceOrientations

Specifies which interface orientations this application supports.

Replaces`<orientations>`.

For device-specific configurations, use:

* `UISupportedInterfaceOrientations~ipad`

* `UISupportedInterfaceOrientations~iphone`

* `UISupportedInterfaceOrientations~ipod`

**Example: Limits iPhone orientation to portait and no limits for iPad**

```xml
<ios>
<plist>
<dict>
  <key>UISupportedInterfaceOrientations~iphone</key>
  <array>
    <string>UIInterfaceOrientationPortrait</string>
  </array>
  <key>UISupportedInterfaceOrientations~ipad</key>
  <array>
    <string>UIInterfaceOrientationPortrait</string>
    <string>UIInterfaceOrientationPortraitUpsideDown</string>
    <string>UIInterfaceOrientationLandscapeLeft</string>
    <string>UIInterfaceOrientationLandscapeRight</string>
  </array>
</dict>
</plist>
</ios>
```

#### UIBackgroundModes

A list of background modes this app supports. For a [BackgroundService](#!/api/Titanium.App.iOS.BackgroundService) to run for more than a limited period of time, the application must declare one or more of these background modes.

Replaces `<backgroundModes>`.

**Example: Enables all background services**

```xml
<ios>
<plist>
<dict>
  <key>UIBackgroundModes</key>
  <array>
    <string>audio</string>
    <string>location</string>
    <string>voip</string>
    <string>newsstand-content</string>
    <string>external-accessory</string>
    <string>bluetooth-central</string>
    <string>bluetooth-peripheral</string>
  </array>
</dict>
</plist>
</ios>
```

#### UIRequiredDeviceCapabilities

A list of features this app requires.

Replaces `<requires>`.

**Example: Require all device capabilities**

```xml
<ios>
<plist>
<dict>
  <key>UIRequiredDeviceCapabilities</key>
  <array>
    <string>telephony</string>
    <string>wifi</string>
    <string>sms</string>
    <string>still-camera</string>
    <string>auto-focus-camera</string>
    <string>front-facing-camera</string>
    <string>camera-flash</string>
    <string>video-camera</string>
    <string>accelerometer</string>
    <string>gyroscope</string>
    <string>location-services</string>
    <string>gps</string>
    <string>magnetometer</string>
    <string>gamekit</string>
    <string>microphone</string>
    <string>opengles-1</string>
    <string>opengles-2</string>
    <string>armv6</string>
    <string>armv7</string>
    <string>peer-peer</string>
    <string>bluetooth-le</string>
  </array>
</dict>
</plist>
</ios>
```

#### UIRequiresPersistentWiFi

Specifies whether this app requires a Wi-Fi connection.

Replaces the top-level `<persistent-wifi>` element.

Example:

```xml
<key>UIRequiresPersistentWiFi</key><true/>
```

Also, the following iOS-only top-level elements will be deprecated:

#### UIPrerenderedIcon

Specifies whether the app’s icon already includes a shine effect.

Replaces the top-level`<prerendered-icon>`element.

**Example**

```xml
<key>UIPrerenderedIcon</key><true/>
```

#### UIStatusBarHidden

Specifies whether the status bar is initially hidden when the app launches.

Replaces the top-level `<statusbar-hidden>`element.

**Example: Hide the status bar**

```xml
<key>UIStatusBarHidden</key><true/>
```

#### UIStatusBarStyle

Specifies the style of the status bar as the app launches.

Replaces the top-level `<statusbar-style>`element.

**Example: Use the tranluscent style**

```xml
<key>UIStatusBarStyle</key><string>UIStatusBarStyleBlackTranslucent</string>
```

#### Unsupported Info.plist keys

The following `Info.plist` properties are ignored in the`<plist>`section. The values for these properties are automatically generated by Titanium and may not be overridden in the `tiapp.xml` file or custom `Info.plist` file.

* CFBundleDisplayName. The name in the generated file always reflects the value of the `<name>` element

* CFBundleExecutable

* CFBundleIconFile

* CFBundleIconFiles. Automatically includes all application icon files from project directory.

* CFBundleIdentifier

* CFBundleInfoDictionaryVersion

* CFBundleName

* CFBundlePackageType

* CFBundleSignature

* CFBundleVersion (until Titanium 4.1.0)

* CFBundleShortVersionString (until Titanium 4.1.0)

#### iOS9 Security and canOpenUrl

With some of the new security features of iOS9, SDK 5.1.2's **canOpenUrl** might fail without adding in the proper properties in the `info.plist` file. For example,

```xml
<key>LSApplicationQueriesSchemes</key>
    <array>
        <string>fbapi</string>
        <string>fbauth2</string>
        <string>fbshareextension</string>
        <string>fb-messenger-api</string>
        <string>twitter</string>
        <string>whatsapp</string>
        <string>instagram</string>
        <string>comgooglemaps</string>
    </array>
```

### run-on-main-thread

**Since Release 5.1.0**. Enables running all JavaScript scripts on the main thread as opposed to a secondary thread. It is disabled by default in existing projects and enabled in new projects. It will be enabled automatically in Titanium SDK 7.0.0 and later.

```xml
<ti:app>
    <property name="run-on-main-thread" type="bool">true</property>
</ti:app>
```

### log-server-port

**Since Release 6.0.0**. Specifies a custom port to use for the iOS log-server. Use this when the default port is causing issues like "Trying to connect to log server port xxxxx ...".

```xml
<ti:app>
    <ios>
    <!-- Or any other available port -->
        <log-server-port>27973</log-server>
    </ios>
</ti:app>
```

### allow-custom-keyboards

**Since Release 6.1.0**. Allow or disallow custom iOS 8+ keyboard extensions. By default, custom keyboard extensions are allowed. Add this property and set it to false to disallow custom keyboard extensions.

```xml
<ti:app>
    <property name="allow-custom-keyboards" type="bool">false</property>
</ti:app>
```

### use-app-thinning

**Since Release 5.1.0**. Determines whether to enable App Thinning for iOS applications by using an Asset Catalog. An Asset Catalog contains image assets for specific devices. When a user installs your application, only the resources that your device supports will be downloaded. The element is automatically added to new projects since Release 5.1.0. For details, see [App Thinning: Slicing](/guide/Titanium_SDK/Titanium_SDK_Guide/Preparing_for_Distribution/Distributing_iOS_apps/App_Thinning/#slicing).

::: warning ⚠️ Filesystem Access
Because images are store in the Asset Catalog, reading image files manually from the filesystem should be done using the `Ti.Filesystem.getAsset()` method.
:::

```xml
<ti:app>
    <ios>
         <use-app-thinning>true</use-app-thinning>
    </ios>
</ti:app>
```

### use-autolayout

**Since Release 5.1.0**. Enables the iOS [auto-layout engine](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/UserExperience/Conceptual/AutolayoutPG/index.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40010853) to layout the children components of a view. Disabled by default.

If you find any issue using this feature, file a bug in [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/tidev/titanium_mobile/issues).

```xml
<ti:app>
    <ios>
        <use-autolayout>true</use-autolayout>
    </ios>
</ti:app>
```

### use-jscore-framework

**Since Release 4.1.0**. Use the built-in JavaScriptCore framework rather than the custom Titanium one. It will be made default in Titanium SDK 7.0.0 and later.

```xml
<ti:app>
    <ios>
        <use-jscore-framework>true</use-jscore-framework>
    </ios>
</ti:app>
```

### Legacy iPhone

Prior to release 2.1, iOS-specific settings were contained in an `<iphone>`element. These settings are deprecated and should be replaced with the corresponding iOS settings listed in the [iOS specific section](#iOSspecificsection). It will be removed in Titanium SDK 7.0.0 and later.

* `<orientations device="device">`: Restricts the device to these orientations when the application is running. The value of "device" can be "iphone", or "ipad". **Deprecated** in Release 2.1, use [UISupportedInterfaceOrientations](#uisupportedinterfaceorientations) instead.

    * `<orientation>`: An orientation for this `<orientations>` list, valid values are: `Ti.UI.PORTRAIT`, `Ti.UI.UPSIDE_PORTRAIT`, `Ti.UI.LANDSCAPE_LEFT`, `Ti.UI.LANDSCAPE_RIGHT`.

* `<backgroundModes>`: A list of background modes this app supports. **Deprecated** in Release 2.1, use [UIBackgroundModes](#uibackgroundmodes) instead.
    For a [BackgroundService](#!/api/Titanium.App.iOS.BackgroundService) to run for more than a limited period of time, the application must include the `<backgroundModes>`element in `tiapp.xml`.

    * `<mode>`: A background mode, valid values are: `audio`, `location`, and `voip`.

* `<requires>`: A list of features this app requires. **Deprecated** in Release 2.1, use [UIRequiredDeviceCapabilities](#uirequireddevicecapabilities)instead.

    * `<feature>`: A feature that this app requires, valid values are: `telephony`, `wifi`, `sms`, `still-camera`, `auto-focus-camera`, `front-facing-camera`, `camera-flash`, `video-camera`, `accelerometer`, `gyroscope`, `location-services`, `gps`, `magnetometer`, `gamekit`, `microphone`, `opengles-1`, `opengles-2`, `armv6`, `armv7`, `peer-peer`

## Windows-specific

Under the top `<ti:app>` element, you may optionally have a `<windows>`element that contains Windows-specific configuration settings.

### id

**Since Release 5.1.0**. Set to the `Package/Identity/Name` of the application, which was generated when you created the application in the Windows Dev Center Dashboard. Required to package the application. Microsoft will validate this field when you submit the package to the Windows Store.

### manifest

::: danger ❗️ Warning
Support for Windows 8.1 and Windows Phone SDKs has been deprecated as of SDK 6.3.0.GA and has be removed in SDK 7.0.0.GA.
:::

Add the **`<manifest>`** element as a child of the **`<windows>`** element to include [ad-hoc Windows appx.manifest XML elements](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/apps/br211453.aspx). You may optionally define the `target` attribute and set it to either `phone` or `store` to have Windows Phone or Windows Store specific manifests, respectively.

Only supports the following elements:

* `<Capabilities>`: for a list of capabilities, see [Window Dev Center: App capability declarations](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/apps/hh464936.aspx)

* `<Prerequisites>`

* `<Properties>`

* `<Resources>`

* `<Extensions>`

#### Add capabilities

Some Titanium features require capability definitions in order for them to function. These can be defined in the `tiapp.xml` under the platform specific `<windows>` tag.

Users can generate capabilities even if they are not defined in the `tiapp.xml` file. For example, if `app.js` includes a capability but it's not listed as a capability in the `tiapp.xml`:

**`app.js`** :

```
Ti.App.setProximityDetection(true);
```

**`tiapp.xml`** :

```xml
<windows>
    <manifest>
        <Capabilities>
            <Capability Name="internetClient" />
            <Capability Name="picturesLibrary" />
        </Capabilities>
    </manifest>
</windows>
```

And you build the app with this command: `appc run -p windows -S 10.0 --build-only`

The result should be this:

```
...
<Capabilities>
    <Capability Name="internetClient" />
    <uap:Capability Name="picturesLibrary" />
    <DeviceCapability Name="proximity" />
</Capabilities>
...
```

When building a Windows platform module that requires specific capabilities, the user can use `timodule.xml` the same way Android modules requires specific capabilities. At build time, these required capabilities will be included in the user's app.

For example, when building an app that has the following capability in the `timodule.xml`:

```xml
<manifest>
    <Capabilities>
        <DeviceCapability Name="location" />
    </Capabilities>
</manifest>
```

Once the app has been built, you should see that the `timodule.xml` was updated to look something like this:

```
...
<Capabilities>
    <Capability Name="internetClient" />
    <DeviceCapability Name="location"/>
</Capabilities>
...
```

##### Internet capability

Enabled by default, required for _Titanium.Network.\*_

```xml
<ti:app>
  ...
  <windows>
    <manifest>
      <Capabilities>
        <Capability Name="internetClient" />
      </Capabilities>
    </manifest>
  </windows>
  ...
</ti:app>
```

##### Location capability

Required for `Titanium.Geolocation`

```xml
<ti:app>
  ...
  <windows>
    ...
    <manifest>
      <Capabilities>
        <DeviceCapability Name="location" />
      </Capabilities>
    </manifest>
    ...
  </windows>
  ...
</ti:app>
```

##### Background audio capability

Required for `Titanium.Media.AudioPlayer` background audio functionality

```xml
<ti:app>
  ...
  <windows>
    ...
    <manifest>
      <Extensions>
        <Extension Category="windows.backgroundTasks" Executable="$targetnametoken$.exe" EntryPoint="TitaniumWindows_Media.AudioBackground">
          <BackgroundTasks>
            <Task Type="audio" />
          </BackgroundTasks>
        </Extension>
      </Extensions>
    </manifest>
    ...
  </windows>
  ...
</ti:app>
```

##### Audio recorder

Required for `Titanium.Media.AudioRecorder` functionality

```xml
<ti:app>
  ...
  <windows>
    ...
    <Capabilities>
        <Capability Name="musicLibrary" />
        <DeviceCapability Name="microphone" />
        <DeviceCapability Name="webcam" />
    </Capabilities>
    ...
  </windows>
  ...
</ti:app>
```

##### Photo gallery

Required for `Titanium.Media.openPhotoGallery` functionality

```xml
<ti:app>
  ...
  <windows>
    ...
    <Capabilities>
        <Capability Name="picturesLibrary" />
    </Capabilities>
    ...
  </windows>
  ...
</ti:app>
```

Capabilities can also be set independently for _store_ or _phone_ applications by specifying the _target_.

```xml
<ti:app>
  ...
  <windows>
    ...
    <manifest target="phone">
      <Capabilities>
        <DeviceCapability Name="location" />
      </Capabilities>
    </manifest>
    <manifest target="store">
      <Capabilities>
        <Capability Name="internetClient" />
      </Capabilities>
    </manifest>
    ...
  </windows>
  ...
</ti:app>
```

For more information regarding Windows App capabilities refer to [https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/apps/hh464936.aspx](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/apps/hh464936.aspx)

### Target Windows version

Users can define a target Windows version by configuring the `tiapp.xml` in the same way one can configure iOS and Android target versions:

```xml
<windows>
  <TargetPlatformVersion>10.0.14393.0</TargetPlatformVersion>
  <TargetPlatformMinVersion>10.0.10240.0</TargetPlatformMinVersion>
</windows>
```

### Handling differing capabilities between Windows 8.1 and 10

::: danger ❗️ Warning
Support for Windows 8.1 and Windows Phone SDKs has been deprecated as of SDK 6.3.0.GA and has be removed in SDK 7.0.0.GA.
:::

Windows Phone 8.1:

```xml
<ti:app>
    ...
    <windows>
        <manifest target="phone" version="8.1">
            <Capabilities>
                <Capability Name="appointments" />
            </Capabilities>
        </manifest>
    </windows>
    ...
</ti:app>
```

Windows 8.1 Store

```xml
<ti:app>
    ...
    <windows>
        <manifest target="store" version="8.1">
            <Capabilities>
                <Capability Name="musicLibrary" />
            </Capabilities>
        </manifest>
    </windows>
    ...
</ti:app>
```

Windows 10 is universal so target doesn't matter:

```xml
<ti:app>
    ...
    <windows>
        <manifest version="10.0">
            <Capabilities>
                <Capability Name="contacts"/>
            </Capabilities>
        </manifest>
    </windows>
    ...
</ti:app>
```

Common capabilities across targets and SDK versions (Windows 10, Windows 8.1 Store, and Windows 8.1 Phone):

```xml
<ti:app>
    ...
    <windows>
        <manifest>
            <Capabilities>
                <Capability Name="internetClient" />
            </Capabilities>
        </manifest>
    </windows>
    ...
</ti:app>
```

### Windows-specific application properties

| Property Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| ti.windows.publishername | Must match the Windows publisher ID of your Microsoft Developer account. Used by the Titanium for the Windows SDKs to generate signing certificates and sign your package.<br /><br />**To retrieve your Windows publisher ID:**<br /><br />1. Log into [https://dev.windows.com](https://dev.windows.com/).<br />    <br />2. Click **Dashboard** in the top-right corner.<br />    <br />3. Click **Account settings** in the left navigation.<br />    <br /><br />The publisher GUID will be under the **Account details** section as the **Windows publisher ID** field.<br /><br />Example:<br /><br />```xml<br /><property name="ti.windows.publishername" type="string”>CN=11111111-2222-3333-4444-555555555555</property><br />``` |

## Cloud

Mobile Backend Services uses the following [Application properties](#app_properties) to configure a Titanium project to use Mobile Backend Services. If a deployment-specific setting is provided (production or development) then that value will be used for the current deployment environment. To specify a deployment-specific settings add the suffix `-development` or `-production` to the property name, for example, `acs-api-key-development` and `acs-api-key-productions` are the deployment-specific settings for `acs-api-key`.

| Property Name | Type | Default Value | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| acs-api-key | string | N/A | Arrow API key. Generated when enabling the project for Cloud services. |
| acs-base-url | string | https://api.cloud.appcelerator.com | Arrow API URL. DO NOT SET OR MODIFY UNLESS INSTRUCTED TO. |
| acs-grouped-notification-message | string | N/A | Specifies the message to display for grouped notifications, for example, "You have $number$ unread messages." The `$number$` variable represents the number of unread messages. This property is also supported in the `strings.xml` file under the `i18n` folder for internationalized versions. |
| acs-push-api-url | string | https://api.cloud.appcelerator.com/ | Mobile Backend Services dispatcher URL for Android GCM or FCM push notifications. [Firebase Cloud Messaging](http://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/) (FCM) is the new version of GCM. DO NOT SET OR MODIFY UNLESS INSTRUCTED TO. |
| acs-authbase-url | string | https://secure-identity.cloud.appcelerator.com | **OAuth authentication is no longer supported in the ti.cloud module.  <br />  <br />**Arrow Authentication URL. |
| acs-oauth-key | string | N/A | **OAuth authentication is no longer supported **in the ti.cloud module**.  <br />  <br />**ACS OAuth key. Generated when enabling the project for Cloud services. |
| acs-oauth-secret | string | N/A | **OAuth authentication is no longer supported **in the ti.cloud module**.  <br />  <br />**ACS OAuth secret. Generated when enabling the project for Cloud services. |
| acs-push-type | string | gcm | **Deprecated since Release 3.2.0. The ti.cloudpush module now only supports GCM or FCM. [Firebase Cloud Messaging](http://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/) (FCM) is the new version of GCM.  <br />**<br /><br />Selects the push notification type for Android devices, either `gcm` or `mqtt.` |

## Google Play Services

As of Titanium 9.0.0, if your Android app includes the `ti.playservices` module, it will automatically check on app startup if Google Play Services is installed on the device and is up-to-date. If not, it will request the end-user to install or update it before executing the app's main script. This is needed so that the Google Play Services libraries included in the app can function. If you want to disable this feature, then you can do so by setting the following `tiapp.xml` property to `false`.

```xml
<ti:app>
    <property name="ti.playservices.validate.on.startup" type="bool">false</property>
</ti:app>
```

## Modules

See the Module Developer Guides for [Android](/guide/Titanium_SDK/Titanium_SDK_How-tos/Extending_Titanium_Mobile/Android_Module_Development_Guide/) and [iOS](/guide/Titanium_SDK/Titanium_SDK_How-tos/Extending_Titanium_Mobile/iOS_Module_Development_Guide/).

### timodule.xml

A timodule.xml follows the same structure as a tiapp.xml, but most of the metadata for a module project lives in the module's `manifest` file. Right now, the `timodule.xml` is only used in Android, and it supports all of the tags listed in the Android section above. Any custom metadata your Android module defines in it's `timodule.xml` `<android>` section will automatically be merged with a Titanium application that installs your module.

In some cases, metadata defined in the `timodule.xml` file depends on application-specific metadata from the `tiapp.xml` file. For example, if the module defines a custom permission, or a custom intent filter, you may need to include the application's package name in the identifier.

To support this use case, the `timodule.xml` file allows token substitution, so you can specify variable values that will be replaced with application-specific values at build time. For example:

**timodule.xml**

```xml
<android xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
  <manifest>
    <permission android:name="${tiapp.properties['id']}.permission.MY_NEW_PERMISSION"
    android:protectionLevel="signature" />
  </manifest>
</android>
```

Note the token `${tiapp.properties['id']`}. In this token, `tiapp.properties` refers to the collection of top-level properties defined in the
`tiapp.xml` file. To access a property in this collection, such as `<id>`, `<name>`, `<version>`, or `<publisher`\>, use square brackets with the property name in quotes inside, as shown in the example.

If you include this module in an application with the App ID `com.example.app`, the `AndroidManifest.xml` file is generated with the following permission element:

```xml
<permission android:name="com.example.app.permission.MY_NEW_PERMISSION"
    android:protectionLevel="signature" />
```
